Dear fellow practitioners, I, the spiritual master of the H-
Quan, would like to answer your questions:
How to abandon discriminatory thinking when receiving
opinions from fellow practitioners in the Dharma
Hall? When I was a member of the leadership committee, I felt
discriminated against when helping
Buddhists. If a Buddhist was easy to listen to and
accept information, I would usually
guide and support them more. On the other hand,
if a Buddhist had many opinions or acted independently,
I would feel
impatient when guiding them. So, whenever a
Buddhist had an opinion, I would often avoid
them. I also noticed that many
other members of the leadership committee felt similarly. Sometimes, when a
Buddhist had an opinion, I and some other practitioners would ignore it to avoid further conflict. Sometimes, a Buddhist's opinion was valid, but I
felt unhappy having to accept it. I respectfully
ask for
your
guidance.  As for others, it depends on
our capacity for compassion,
on the capacity for compassion
we already possess. For example,
difficult work requires
wisdom, heavy work requires physical
strength. And if we want to encourage others to practice, it depends
on our capacity for compassion and
our karmic connections. First,
we must strengthen the transmission of Buddhist
teachings to connect with sentient beings.
We should practice the methods that most effectively connect us with sentient beings, which will
quickly increase our
capacity for compassion. Do you understand
this point clearly? When performing meritorious deeds that
serve the masses, we should do them, even something as simple as
sweeping the ground. Sweeping
within the Six Harmonies is also serving the
masses. We should choose to do anything that
benefits the masses
to accumulate
merit. Once we have accumulated
such merit, our words will be
more easily accepted by others.  Dear Dharma Friends, it's easier to accept,
and we have a way of speaking that makes
others accept it more easily. That's
because of our merit,
not because we can learn it from anywhere.
Everything arises from our merit,
so we must diligently practice giving, observing precepts,
and listening to the Dharma to deeply understand Right View.
Dear Dharma Friends, there's no other way. So
why do we
feel this way? Because our merit is
still limited, isn't it?
Limited merit means our mind isn't
joyful yet. We're not joyful in
difficult situations.
We only serve as far as our merit goes.
So we must remember that great compassion means doing
difficult work, not easy work; doing
great work, not
small work. Therefore, the only way now
is to accumulate merit.
Okay, all the merit we
see... This is our duty, directed towards the
masses. This is what we must do,
a simple example, a perfect example.  The
Buddha's Birthday festival is meant to benefit the masses,
isn't it? So, even the smallest things we do
during this festival
must be done, right? We
must do them joyfully, whatever our duty, we must
do them to benefit the masses. Benefiting the masses
is cultivating compassion, and
cultivating compassion leads to
people's admiration and unity,
right? Cultivating compassion brings
merit. Therefore,
we must cultivate compassion, always focusing on
the masses, always doing good deeds.
This meritorious deed will support us, giving us
more blessings and wisdom to do
other meritorious deeds, right? It's
like us, for example,
we have to learn to walk first, and only then can
we do
other things, right? So, it's the same
here; we must cultivate
merit, my dear friends. In
these four teachings about the four duties of Compassion and Great Compassion,
we listen to them repeatedly,
and we become diligent.  Through practice,
we will gradually gain merit from the virtue of
compassion, from the virtue of great compassion. From
there, we can feel more love for
people,
less anger, less hatred, more forgiveness, and
more means to
encourage people, isn't that right? We can say
things accurately, making
people listen and feel
more joyful. That's called the means. The
ten titles of
our Buddha—we must
cultivate this Great Compassion to accumulate
merit to create those ten titles. A Tathagata must uphold the precepts to become a
Tathagata, is
n't
that true? A Tathagata must practice giving to receive offerings. If we are stingy and miserly,
how can we receive offerings
from gods and humans?
Because the offerings of gods and
humans bring them blessings, we
must cultivate many virtues of giving,
from our words to how we speak to alleviate people's
sadness. Isn't that right? Then, give in
small acts of charity, secretly reciting scriptures to help others.  The opportunity to
share the Dharma is immense, and only then can
we receive offerings and avoid misfortune.
These ten mindfulness practices are
already covered in our own lessons. When we return home, we must
listen again and
accumulate much merit. Here, with our minds focused on the practice of the
Dharma, together with our esteemed fellow practitioners, we
are all those who are just beginning to learn. This means we are
learning through theory, then contemplation, then practice. The
theory is listening, then contemplating, then
understanding the benefits,
seeing the Dharma practice, and then practicing—that is,
we
must practice—to achieve results. I wish all esteemed fellow practitioners diligence and I wish all the Buddhists in our club to understand the truth about the Six Harmonious Virtues and the merit of fulfilling our duties in the Dharma center's leadership committee. Those who are not yet in leadership positions should strive to
cultivate compassion, and those who are in leadership positions
should strive to accumulate the merit of Great Compassion.
Then, they should volunteer to join the
Dharma center's leadership committee or the club's leadership committee
so that we can practice ourselves
and support others in practicing the Dharma of the Six
Harmonious Virtues.  Let us attain noble Dharma practices. Let us
bring long-term benefit to ourselves and
to all sentient beings. By accumulating merit and great compassion,
we will have the opportunity to become
Buddhas. In this way, the lineage of Buddhas will not be lost, and sentient beings will have a refuge.
We must think about this, think about sentient
beings who are not yet enlightened, even in
our own moments of unenlightenment, so that we may
cultivate the desire for sentient beings to attain enlightenment.
Only enlightenment can alleviate suffering,
so let us strive our best. Let us do our utmost
in all
circumstances. Wishing you all the best.
[Music]